I will come back on the last video we were able to check if the form was submitted by checking if submit
was sent from that submit button.
And we picked up this information and we were able to check it out.
So we went like this and clicks of Mitt and we got this data here.
Now this might not be the case in the real form.
All right.
So we have to find a better way to actually check on this and then use that data.
Now we are we are going to be connecting to my school and this video here but I'm also going to show
you how to check if this data exists here.
Right before we do anything else we don't want to do anything.
All this data is there.
We don't know.
We just know that the form was submitted but we don't know if they use a name is there.
So we know what we want to do is check this and say and user names so we're making sure that these bowlful
these values are included.
By doing that I mean just come in this hour and not going to need that neither need it right now.
And
we saw how to do this in the if statement tutorials right.
Elisha's videos.
I'm sorry.
I also wanted to Torrijos.
Well they are kind of tutorials right.
All right.
Let's just comment this here comment that back in.
And as a matter of fact.
Yeah that's fine.
We're just going to take a ball for them.
All right.
So if they use a name right here and the past exist.
All right we can use if said if you want to use that set you can use that for of function.
I think it's better for this for a small demonstration here and it's going to show you we'll show it
to you in a different way.
We'll I already show you how to use it this way.
All right.
So we're already picking up the data here.
So if user name and why what this if statement would do a when you just pass it in something like this.
It would just give you a true or false Boolean value.
So if user name is there is positives true and the password is true then I would call this out.
So I'm just going to say like that and this and that and click submit.
So it is there right.
Else we could say something like No.
Or something like that right.
No.
All right.
No submit.
And then we'd say no you see that we submitted the form and checked on that.
But then the user name is out there where you could say something like user name is not set.
You can say right here make sure that you say user name or this field can now be blank or something
like that these field
can be black.
Right.
Something like that just giving you an example right.
So it can not be black.
All right.
So anyway now that we have that in place here and let's connect to the database.
All right let's take this out here and just kind of comment is out and let's connect to the database
so to connect to the database I'm going to use an API called my HQ L I underscore connect I've got to
make a variable here.
That's that's how you you do.
You make a variable and you assign it its function.
My rescue.
I connect this function we're going to pass in a couple of parameters.
The first parameter we are going to pass is the server and this case we've got localhost.
Most of the time that's why you will have and the password I haven't set up any.
Well the user name is route.
Haven't said anything there and the password is empty we have or haven't set any password yet so that
the full password is root and that the full user names are his root and then the full pass was empty.
All right.
And
here would be what are we checking users.
That would be the table right.
It's a matter of fact I think it would be that this is a database I'm sorry database.
So we have our databases.
Let's go back logo's and
BHP my admin is a database admin.
I think it was oh I just don't want to make a mistake logging app All right.
Well mistakes are good.
Mistakes are really good.
I like making mistakes and not afraid of them makes me better.
So now that we have all this connection here and this function here we need to check it.
So we're going to have another statement here and we're going to say if connection remember what I told
you this will return the chool files if connection is true.
Then we will do something like
we are connected connected and here we say something like.
Else what you need to do is use some other function called Die in this thing.
Well what this would do is just would not execute any more code and would give you give the user error
here.
So I would say my database connection connection failed failed.
There we go.
So let's go and try this.
Let's keep our fingers crossed.
All right.
Let's click here.
Elisha's Samit we are connected.
So we finally connected to the database we are in business right.
So on the next leg you see I'm going to show you some more stuff we might ask you though and I hope
you enjoy this one.
And now that we are connected to the database we can start doing some great things with it.
So anyway thank you so much.
And I see you in the next lecture.